UPDATEDB(1L)                                       UPDATEDB(1L)





NAME
       updatedb - update a file name database

SYNOPSIS
       updatedb [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual page documents the GNU version of updatedb,
       which updates file name databases used  by  GNU  locate.
       The file name databases contain lists of files that were
       in particular directory trees when  the  databases  were
       last  updated.  The file name of the default database is
       determined when locate and updatedb are  configured  and
       installed.   The  frequency with which the databases are
       updated and  the  directories  for  which  they  contain
       entries  depend  on  how often updatedb is run, and with
       which arguments.

       In networked environments, it often makes sense to build
       a  database  at  the root of each filesystem, containing
       the entries for that filesystem.  updatedb is  then  run
       for   each  filesystem  on  the  fileserver  where  that
       filesystem is on a local disk, to prevent thrashing  the
       network.    Users  can  select  which  databases  locate
       searches using an environment variable or  command  line
       option;  see  locate(1L).  Databases can not be concate-
       nated together.

       The file name database format changed starting with  GNU
       find and locate version 4.0 to allow machines with diff-
       ent byte orderings to share the databases.  The new  GNU
       locate  can  read both the old and new database formats.
       However, old versions of locate and find produce  incor-
       rect results if given a new-format database.

OPTIONS
       --localpaths='path1 path2...'
              Non-network  directories  to put in the database.
              Default is /.

       --netpaths='path1 path2...'
              Network (NFS, AFS, RFS, etc.) directories to  put
              in the database.  Default is none.

       --prunepaths='path1 path2...'
              Directories  to  not  put  in the database, which
              would otherwise be.   Default  is  /tmp  /usr/tmp
              /var/tmp /afs.

       --output=dbfile
              The  database  file to build.  Default is system-
              dependent, but typically /usr/local/var/locatedb.

       --netuser=user
              The  user to search network directories as, using
              su(1).  Default is daemon.

       --old-format
              Create the database in the old format instead  of
              the new one.

       --version
              Print the version number of updatedb and exit.

       --help Print  a  summary  of the options to updatedb and
              exit.

SEE ALSO
       find(1L), locate(1L),  locatedb(5L),  xargs(1L)  Finding
       Files (on-line in Info, or printed)



                                                   UPDATEDB(1L)
